---
title: "References"

---

## Signature

A signature in AQP is a cryptographic signature generated by public-private key pair. The protocol should be abstract, where it will support ‘Method’ in later iterations. This will allow us to use different types of implementations such as: `PGP signatures`, `Ethereum`, or `Bitcoin wallet ’s` signatures.

In this specification, we use the AQP reference implementation’s signing method, which is via an Ethereum wallet.

```js
signature_hash = calculate_hash_sum(
    signature + public_key
)
```

The signature is generated by a wallet signing the following message:

```
I sign the following page verification_hash:" +[0x0x9dab72<revision_verification_hash>]
```


## Wallet
A wallet is a software for protecting and managing private cryptographic keys
(of private-public key pairs) which are used to govern digital assets. This is
done by authorization of transactions via digital signatures or by initiating
decryption processes to access data.

See [Separation of Concerns](design-principles.md#separation-of-account-and-service).

### Account

We are following Ethereum's account definition:
> In general, there are two types of accounts. Externally owned accounts,
> controlled by private keys. And contract accounts, controlled by their
> contract code
-- [Ethereum Whitepaper](https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/#ethereum-accounts)

In general, we can't prove if an account owner is a person or a machine. With
advancements in AI, it will become increasingly difficult to prove that a human
is a human. [Attempts are being made](https://www.proofofhumanity.id/) to
increase trustworthiness of accounts which fall short in questions of privacy
and security as they make public claims. Traditional know your customer (KYC)
combined with the AQP and Aqua Identity Protocol (AIP) identification processes
can provide similar "proof of being human" which can be attested to an account.
This allows us to outsource the problem of identification, where we only focus
on unique accounts which are sufficient for data accounting independent of
humans or machines. Identity claims issued via the AIP will help to provide the
context required to meaningfully interact between accounts.

For more on this topic, please read the [Aqua Identity
Protocol](aqua-identity-protocol.md).

### Domain
A domain is a unique namespace attributed to an account. It allows us to manage
services and files within that namespace creating a domain of data governance
After granted permissions, additional accounts can be added to share control
over a domain or singular assets. To enforce boundaries of a domain, additional
software like the [Guardian](guardian.md) is required.

E.g. by setting up the a data vault with your account it becomes your
domain of data governance.



### Transaction Security

Transaction security is an economic measure of the level of integrity assurance
for a transaction. It is defined as the cost required to forge a transaction.
The transaction security can be increased by cryptographic security and by strong
replication of transactions. Public distributed ledger systems are highly suitable
for providing very high level of transaction security at the cost of privacy
and immutability (data can't be changed or deleted). Today, public distributed
ledgers such as Bitcoin and Ethereum provide the highest level of transaction
security.

### Data Asset

Data turns into a valuable asset if it is accounted for. In an accounted form
it can be easily priced, exchanged or traded.

### Data Vault

Software used to store and manage data with an account. The software must apply
a secure architecture and measures for keeping data assets safe. This is
achieved through encryption, strong authentication and restrictive access to
keep data private by default.

See [Design Principles / Separation of Account and
Service](design-principles.md#separation-of-account-and-service)



## Metadata

```
metadata_hash = calculate_hash_sum(
    domain_id + time_stamp + previous_verification_hash
)
```

Description:
- metadata_hash: The check sum for all metadata data fields. It simplifies the
  hash construction and the ability to identify data corrupton in this part of
  the verification structure.
- domain_id: 10 digits hexadecimal randomly generated to identify the host
  system that runs the AQP service.
- time_stamp: time-stamp of the current revision (decimal numbers
  YYYYMMDDHHMMSS e.g. 20211128092608).
- previous_verification_hash: previous_revision_verification_hash if present



## Witness

Witnessing allows one to undeniably prove the existence of a dataset
(represented as a portable hash chain). To complete the witnessing process, a
Domain Snapshot is created. This is a collection of all revision hashes within
one domain. A Merkle tree is used to unify all hashes of the latest revisions
of all portable hash chains within a domain into a single hash value.

The `witness_event_verification_hash` is written to the [Witness
Network](#witness-network). The
`witness_event_verification_hash` is then generated by using the
`domain_snapshot_genesis_hash` and the `merkle_root` hash together. This
allows the page snapshot itself to also be witnessed.

A single revision which has been witnessed, will not store the whole Merkle
tree, but only its relevant path to the Merkle root. Performing a Merkle proof
means that its revision is included in the Merkle tree.

```
witness_hash = calculate_hash_sum(
    domain_snapshot_genesis_hash + merkle_root +
    witness_network + witness_event_transaction_hash
)
```


### Witness network
We are using the Ethereum Network as an optional Witness Network for
cryptographic time-stamping.

## Encryption
according to wikipedia
```
In cryptography, encryption (more specifically, encoding) is the process of transforming information in a way that, ideally, only authorized parties can decode. This process converts the original representation of the information, known as plaintext, into an alternative form known as ciphertext. Despite its goal, encryption does not itself prevent interference but denies the intelligible content to a would-be interceptor.

```

## Hash
according to investopedia

```
A hash is a mathematical function that converts an input of arbitrary length into an encrypted output of a fixed length. Thus, regardless of the original amount of data or file size involved, its unique hash will always be the same size. Moreover, secure hashes cannot be "reverse-engineered" to get the input from the hashed output, at least with current technology.

If you use a specific function on the same data, its hash will be identical, so you can validate that the data is the same (i.e., unaltered) if you already know its hash. A different function would deliver a different hash.

```

### Verification Process

The verification process is a redo of the verification data generation
process, and additionally a comparison of their results.

**Verification of Content**

All hashes are recalculated in a separate client implementation, and
compared with the ones sent via the API. If the data was not altered or
corrupted; nor was there a difference in the process to calculate the
hash, they will match. This will create a high level of assurance that
the integrity and history of the portable hash chain in question has not been
altered.

**Verification of Account**

We cryptographically verify that the revision signature is indeed generated by the account specified in the verification data.

**Verification of Time**

To verify that the witness event included in a revision is correct, a
lookup and comparison of the `witness_event_verification_hash` on-chain is
performed and compared with the recalculated event.
